
Current plans for the sequencer project ("Seqer"), as of 2013-02-13:

This generation of Seqer is centered around a single megawidget, which combines aspects of an event list and a piano roll.  The event list portion is traditional in its columns, but its rows are worth discussion.

There is one row for each event.  Rows are grouped into "steps" of a configurable time unit.  Events don't have to occur at the start of a step.  If no event occurs during a particular step, an empty row is displayed.  If more than one event occurs during a step, additional rows are displayed, stretching the vertical axis out of its normal, linear scale.

A vertical piano roll functions as an additional, graphical column in the table, with time mapped into a vertical position by interpolating between the vertical positions where successive steps start (ignoring individual rows).







What should the columns be?

cakewalk: track, hmsf time, mbt time, channel, type, note, velocity, duration
cubase: type, time, end time, duration, note, velocity, release velocity, channel, comment
logic: time, type, channel, note, velocity, duration
dp: time, note, velocity, release velocity, duration
reaper: index, time, duration, channel, type, note, velocity
seqer: type, time, track, channel, note, velocity, duration, release velocity







Step size and zoom:

   Amount: [6                  ]

     Mode: (x) Steps per measure
           ( ) Measures per step
           ( ) Seconds per step

           [Ok] [Cancel]


In "steps per measure" mode each time signature block in the sequence has its own amount.  Zoom in and out moves through a series appropriate to the current time signature (4/4 = 1, 2, 4, 8...; 3/4 = 1, 3, 6, 12...; 6/8 = 1, 2, 6, 12, 24...; 7/8 = 1, 7, 14, 28...).  The dialog lets the user type in a non-series number to achieve tuplets.  Zoom in or out from a tuplet goes to the next nearest series number.

In "measures per step" mode the whole sequence uses the same amount.  Zoom in and out moves through factors of two.

Zooming out from 1 step per measure for the current time signature block switches to 2 measures per step for the whole sequence, regardless of how many steps per measure were in use for other time signature blocks.  Zooming in from 1 measure per step switches to "steps per measure" mode, but has a different effect on the current time signature block than for others:  the current time signature block switches to the second entry in that time signature's series, whereas other time signature blocks remain at 1 step per measure.  Taken together, these rules means that 1 step per measure and 1 measure per step are not quite identical, but by overshooting and coming back they can both always be reached via zoom in and out.

In "seconds per step" mode the whole sequence uses the same amount, and zoom in and out moves through factors of two, just like "measures per step" mode.  However, fractional (positive floating point) amounts are supported, so there is no need for a separate "steps per second" mode (and no complex logic for transitioning between them).





TODO:
    event grid
        insert/delete/edit operations
        infinite scrollbar logic
        mouse support for navigate/select
    piano roll
        mouse support for select
    step size controls
        There should be zoom in, zoom out, and step size dialog commands.
        Zoom in and out imply that there's a sequence of available zoom levels.  Actually, there will be two such sequences (toggleable from the step size dialog):
        1.  Seconds-based steps.  This zooms in and out by a factor of two.
        2.  Musical-time-based steps.  Base step size is one beat.  One level zoomed out is one measure, then two measures, four measures, etc.  Zooming in takes you through a sequence of powers of two fractions of a beat, interspersed (in sorted order) with additional fractions specified by the user in a list of numerator/denominator pairs.  The list should come seeded with common tuplets.
    selection/clipboard infrastructure
    undo/redo infrastructure
    multi-window infrastructure
    realtime MIDI infrastructure
        mapping from port name strings (arbitrarily user-selectable) to actual output ports
        no arming of tracks; record should always target the current track
        MIDI sync master
        MIDI sync slave (much harder)
    markers
    macros
        Current plan (of many possible approaches):
        Macros would be based solely around record and playback of other commands.
        There would be 36 available macro slots, one for each letter and number.
        A vi-like record command which would take the slot identifier as an argument (no popup dialog when the record command is invoked from a keyboard shortcut).  Invoking the record command again would finish the recording.
        Pressing alt+shift+(slot) would invoke the macro.  Since this type of keyboard binding supports hold-down-to-repeat, there's no need for a vi-like "." command or user-controllable mapping of arbitrary keystrokes.
        Open question: should macros persist in the application's saved state?
    external tool infrastructure
        There should be a command for running the current sequence through an external program whose command line can be specified in a popup (with substitution parameters for input/output temp filenames).  An option would control whether this is uni- or bidirectional.  If bidirectional, the sequence would be replaced by the output of the tool, but Seqer would attempt to apply the same view settings and cursor location as had been in effect before the tool was invoked.
        This would be a quick way to get tempo mapping, etc. into Seqer, as well as supporting user scripting.  Would be particularly nice in combination with macros.
    non-realtime MIDI input
        step-time recording = add at current grid step and don't automatically move on to the next step
        also support MMC for remote control of the transport

